At Cal Poly, we generally have small classes. This means that for many
courses, there may be ten or more individual sections of that course
running at the same time, taught by four or more distinct instructors.
This can lead to a situation in which two students may take the same
course and finish the course having satisfied utterly different learning
objectives.

Broadly speaking, the job of the course coordinator is to mitigate this
problem by supervising a given course, ensuring that the course is taught
in a way that ensures that students in the course are well-educated and
well-prepared for follow-on courses (if there are any).

As part of this, the course coordinator is responsible for maintaining a
document that describes the learning objectives of the course.

The course coordinator should have input into who is teaching the
course, though this may be advisory. The course coordinator should be
notified in a timely manner who is teaching the course in upcoming terms.

Course coordinators of any course can "declare" that a course will have
a common final or common assignments or common labs or common midterms.
For each of these, the course coordinator may declare that such an
element will be graded in common. Any of these declarations may be
reversed by the department. If the course coordinator declares a common
element, he or she is responsible for supplying these materials in a
timely manner, preferably before the start of the course, and for
enabling the timely grading of the assignment or test.

In the case of assignments and labs, instructors can make reasonable
modifications, and should inform the coordinator of these changes. In
the case of exams (including midterms), alterations should be made only
with the agreement of the coordinator.

Course coordination can be handled jointly, if desired.

Course coordinators are expected to exert control over a course only
to the degree necessary to ensure reasonable coverage of course objectives,
and in the case of courses required by other later courses, to ensure
that the students are in a sufficiently similar state to allow the later
course to proceed without dramatic disruption.

The course coordinators should be chosen by the department chair and
curriculum chair, and approved by the department. Any course for which a
coordinator has not been chosen will be considered to be coordinated by
the department chair and the curriculum chair jointly.

